# F-J Test

This is the quick test of F-J method.

# What is F-J method?
https://doi.org/10.1029/2018JB016595

F-J method is a kind of seismic method for extracting surface wave dispersion.

# What are those files used for

1. freq_bessel_trans.m is the matlab program for F-J transform. 
2. PhaseShiftOfSW.m is the matlab program for phase shift method to extract surface wave dispersion.
3. seis-1 / seis-2 or other files like that are the synthetic data generated by QSEIS. 
4. Uf.dat / Ur.dat or other files like that are the synthetic data generated by H.M Zhang's program.



# About synthetic data
There are some paper about F-J method. 
- 基于矢量波数变换法_VWTM_的多道Rayleigh波分析方法_杨振涛
- Frequency-Bessel Transform Method for Effective
Imaging of Higher-Mode Rayleigh Dispersion Curves
From Ambient Seismic Noise Data_Jiannan Wang

We choose four methods to generate the surface wave data. In order to replicate the results of paper above, we choose same model which is presented below.

## Methods

- QSEIS
- H.M. Zhang's Code
- SOFI2D
- SPECFEM2D


## Model







# To do list

0. complete all the description of program and data file
1. check the validity of F-J method
2. find out a reliable surface wave data, whatever synthtic or real, and treat it as benchmark.

# The problem I met
1. the speed of calculation is too slow. Nanqiao provide a python version of F-J method program. With the help of scipy, it runs much faster than before.
2. I still do NOT figure out how to conduct the F-J transform. There are much different version of formula, and I am sure that there must be some typo in the paper especially in chinese version.